packages/agent-sdk/docs/custom-slash-commands.md, before:

# Custom Slash Commands

Custom slash commands allow you to create reusable AI prompts that can be executed through the Wave agent. These commands are stored as markdown files and can include configuration options and bash command execution.

## File Locations

Custom slash commands are stored in designated directories based on their scope:

- **Project commands**: `.wave/commands/` - Available only in the current project
- **Personal commands**: `~/.wave/commands/` - Available across all your projects

## File Format

Each custom command is a markdown file where:

- The filename (without `.md` extension) becomes the command name
- The file content defines what the command does
- Optional YAML frontmatter provides configuration

## Basic Example

Create `.wave/commands/refactor.md`:

```markdown
Refactor the selected code to improve readability and maintainability.
Focus on clean code principles and best practices.
```

This creates the `/refactor` command that you can use through the SDK.

## With Frontmatter

Create `.wave/commands/security-check.md`:

```markdown
---
allowed-tools: Read, Grep, Glob
model: claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022
---

Analyze the codebase for security vulnerabilities including:

- SQL injection risks
- XSS vulnerabilities
- Exposed credentials
- Insecure configurations
```

## Bash Command Execution

Custom commands can execute bash commands and include their output:

Create `.wave/commands/git-commit.md`:

```markdown
---
allowed-tools: Bash
---

## Context

- Current status: !`git status`
- Current diff: !`git diff HEAD`

## Task

Create a git commit with appropriate message based on the changes.
```

Bash commands are written using the `!`backtick`` syntax. They will be executed and their output will replace the command in the prompt sent to the AI.

## Configuration Options

### Frontmatter Options

- `allowed-tools`: Array of tool names that the sub-agent can use (e.g., `Read, Grep, Glob`)
- `model`: Specific AI model to use for this command (e.g., `claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022`)

## Technical Implementation

- **Isolated Context**: Each custom command runs in its own isolated AI conversation context
- **Sub-Agent Messages**: The conversation is stored as a `subAgent` message in the main conversation
- **No Cross-Contamination**: Sub-agent conversations don't affect the main conversation context
- **Bash Execution**: Commands marked with `!`backtick`` are executed before sending to AI
- **Tool Filtering**: If `allowed-tools` is specified, only those tools are available to the sub-agent

## Usage Examples

```typescript
import { Agent } from "wave-agent-sdk";

const agent = await Agent.create({
  callbacks: {
    onSubAgentMessageAdded: (commandName, subMessages) => {
      console.log(
        `Sub-agent '${commandName}' completed with ${subMessages.length} messages`,
      );
    },
  },
});

// List available commands
const commands = agent.getSlashCommands();

// Get custom command details
const customCommands = agent.getCustomCommands();

// Execute a custom command
await agent.executeSlashCommand("refactor");

// Reload custom commands (useful during development)
agent.reloadCustomCommands();
```

## Message Structure

When a custom command is executed, it creates a message with `role: "subAgent"`:

```typescript
{
  role: "subAgent",
  blocks: [
    {
      type: "text",
      content: "Executed custom command: /refactor"
    }
  ],
  messages: [
    // Array of messages from the sub-agent conversation
    {
      role: "user",
      blocks: [{ type: "text", content: "Refactor the selected code..." }]
    },
    {
      role: "assistant",
      blocks: [{ type: "text", content: "Here's the refactored code..." }]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Security Considerations

- Bash commands are executed with the same permissions as the Wave agent process
- Use `allowed-tools` to limit what tools sub-agents can access
- Project commands take precedence over user commands with the same name
- Commands are loaded at startup and when explicitly reloaded

## Development Workflow

1. Create custom command files in `.wave/commands/`
2. Test the commands using the agent
3. Use `agent.reloadCustomCommands()` to reload changes during development
4. Share project-specific commands by committing the `.wave/commands/` directory

Commit message:

feat: Remove sub-agent concept and integrate custom commands directly into main agent
This commit refactors the custom slash command execution flow:

- **Removed **: Custom commands now execute directly within the main  context, eliminating the need for a separate sub-agent.
- **Simplified Message Structure**: The  message role and nested  array have been removed from  type. Custom command execution is now represented by a  block within a  message.
- **Streamlined Callbacks**:  and  callbacks have been removed, as custom commands no longer generate isolated sub-conversations.
- **Updated Documentation**:  has been updated to reflect the new execution model and message structure.
- **Removed Example and Tests**: The  example and related tests have been removed due to the architectural change.
- **MessageList UI Update**: The  component has been updated to remove rendering logic for sub-agent messages.

This change simplifies the agent's architecture, improves consistency in message handling, and makes custom commands a more seamless part of the main conversation flow.

packages/agent-sdk/docs/custom-slash-commands.md, after:

# Custom Slash Commands

Custom slash commands allow you to create reusable AI prompts that can be executed through the Wave agent. These commands are stored as markdown files and can include configuration options and bash command execution.

## File Locations

Custom slash commands are stored in designated directories based on their scope:

- **Project commands**: `.wave/commands/` - Available only in the current project
- **Personal commands**: `~/.wave/commands/` - Available across all your projects

## File Format

Each custom command is a markdown file where:

- The filename (without `.md` extension) becomes the command name
- The file content defines what the command does
- Optional YAML frontmatter provides configuration

## Basic Example

Create `.wave/commands/refactor.md`:

```markdown
Refactor the selected code to improve readability and maintainability.
Focus on clean code principles and best practices.
```

This creates the `/refactor` command that you can use through the SDK.

## With Frontmatter

Create `.wave/commands/security-check.md`:

```markdown
---
allowed-tools: Read, Grep, Glob
model: claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022
---

Analyze the codebase for security vulnerabilities including:

- SQL injection risks
- XSS vulnerabilities
- Exposed credentials
- Insecure configurations
```

## Bash Command Execution

Custom commands can execute bash commands and include their output:

Create `.wave/commands/git-commit.md`:

```markdown
---
allowed-tools: Bash
---

## Context

- Current status: !`git status`
- Current diff: !`git diff HEAD`

## Task

Create a git commit with appropriate message based on the changes.
```

Bash commands are written using the `!`backtick`` syntax. They will be executed and their output will replace the command in the prompt sent to the AI.

## Configuration Options

### Frontmatter Options

- `allowed-tools`: Array of tool names that the agent can use for this command (e.g., `Read, Grep, Glob`)
- `model`: Specific AI model to use for this command (e.g., `claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022`)

## Technical Implementation

- **Main Agent Context**: Custom commands execute directly within the main agent conversation
- **Tool Filtering**: If `allowed-tools` is specified, only those tools are available during command execution
- **Model Override**: Commands can specify a different model to use temporarily
- **Bash Execution**: Commands marked with `!`backtick`` are executed before sending to AI
- **Seamless Integration**: Command responses are added directly to the main conversation

## Usage Examples

```typescript
import { Agent } from "wave-agent-sdk";

const agent = await Agent.create({
  callbacks: {
    // Custom commands now execute directly in main agent
    onMessageAdded: (message) => {
      console.log(`New message added:`, message);
    },
  },
});

// List available commands
const commands = agent.getSlashCommands();

// Get custom command details
const customCommands = agent.getCustomCommands();

// Execute a custom command
await agent.executeSlashCommand("refactor");

// Reload custom commands (useful during development)
agent.reloadCustomCommands();
```

## Message Structure

When a custom command is executed, it creates a `CustomCommandBlock` in the main conversation:

```typescript
{
  role: "user",
  blocks: [
    {
      type: "custom_command",
      commandName: "refactor",
      content: "Refactor the selected code to improve readability..."
    }
  ]
}
```

The AI's response is then added as a normal assistant message to the main conversation.

## Security Considerations

- Bash commands are executed with the same permissions as the Wave agent process
- Use `allowed-tools` to limit what tools can be used during command execution
- Project commands take precedence over user commands with the same name
- Commands are loaded at startup and when explicitly reloaded

## Development Workflow

1. Create custom command files in `.wave/commands/`
2. Test the commands using the agent
3. Use `agent.reloadCustomCommands()` to reload changes during development
4. Share project-specific commands by committing the `.wave/commands/` directory
